[Applause]
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
I'm Sarah Goa and a lot and I are here
today with Jared Kushner at the Miami
headquarters of his investing firm
Affinity Partners. We're here to talk
about Affinity, the new co they're
launching, Brain Co. and his career in
government, business, and investing.
Welcome Jared. Jared, thanks so much for
doing this with us.
>> Oh, it's good to be with you guys. So,
you have a couple interesting new and
newish projects. Let's start with
Affinity. Um, you were an investor
before and you started a firm after your
time um as a public servant. What did
you do differently?
>> When I'd left government, I was
thinking, what could I do to apply the
different learnings that I'd had to my
next version of a business career? And
as I was studying all the different
firms out there, I realized the world
didn't need another, you know, couple
billion dollar private equity firm. But
I tried to focus as I would speak to my
friends who were investors on what they
needed, what value we could provide. And
what we saw was that we had the ability
to be complex problem solvers. That's
what we did in government. That's what
we were good at. And we thought we could
do that in partnership with a lot of
other firms. So the aspiration with
Affinity is to be the most value ad and
outcome determinative partner to um the
best entrepreneurs and the best
companies in the world. And so we
focused on finding the best companies,
thinking through what are their uh
biggest challenges, what are their
biggest opportunities and thinking
through how we can uh partner with them,
putting skin in the game by investing
with them versus a consultant and being
in a position where we can then help
them achieve uh their aspirations. And a
lot of you know we have a very unique uh
large network and uh we're very trusted
by the people we we deal with. And so
they open up to us about their
challenges and opportunities and then
we're able to, you know, scope and look
for different uh solutions and then we
validate them through investment and
then we're able to add value to the
companies we're investing in by helping
them find uh new customers and new
opportunities.
>> In what ways do you think companies are
not as globally ambitious as they should
be? Like if they knew what you knew or
had the network you did? I think for
most people to be very successful at
something, they usually are very focused
on an industry or on a geography. And to
be exceptional, you have to be uh fairly
uh obsessive about whichever of the
fields you are trying to be exceptional
in. And so what happens is is they
usually have a lot of perspective in
their field or in their geography, but
they don't have the time or the
knowledge or the network in order to see
how people like them are doing similar
things throughout the world. And so by
having a real global perspective, I was
able to see that in most places if
you're successful, you have a fairly um
positive and uh and local centric view
of yourself. But when you can look at a
global global view, I would say, "Wow,
these guys in in India or these guys in
in uh in the Middle East or these guys
in Europe, they're doing uh the same
business but in a different way." And so
by, you know, giving those suggestions,
sometimes connecting them together, you
can help people who are very good at
something accelerate or modify their
business in order to do something
hopefully better than they would have
done without your perspective. It sounds
as Yuri Miller kind of did that when he
showed up for Facebook and did a famous
investment there. It's because he'd been
involved with a core or he started a
Russian network, Russian social network.
And so he realized that Facebook could
monetize in all these ways that it
wasn't doing it. And so that's how he
did valuation. And I think at the time
everybody thought his valuation was
crazy and how could you invest in
Facebook at $5 billion or whatever it
was and of course now it's like a
trillion dollarish company. And so I
think it's really notable when people
kind of bring these crossber things
over. I think you mentioned in the past
that you all are involved in businesses
in Israel in Europe and Latin America.
Could you could you give some specific
examples of some of the things that
you've done through affinity and how
that has pulled together from a global
perspective?
>> Sure. So I agree very much with what
you're saying about being a generalist.
Sometimes you can miss things, but also
sometimes you can see things that other
people don't see. And the cool thing
about investing is you don't have to be
right about everything. You have to, you
know, be very focused on finding the
things that you think you have a
differentiated perspective on where you
can have high conviction and then you
place your bets on those uh high
conviction um uh bets that you want to
take. And so uh by being global, we've
we've done things a lot in the
technology space. So we've done a lot
here in in the US in technology uh and
AI and the data layer and some of the uh
the models and some of the uh different
applications that we've worked on.
You've helped us uh source and introduce
us some incredible uh companies in that
space. Then we also also have made
investments uh throughout the world. So
we uh we've done some in insurance.
We've had four insurance investments
which we like. I mean those fit into
more of our bucket of conventional
businesses that have some form of
differentiation uh great leadership and
can be long-term compounders. Uh,
another uh, one of those businesses we
did was we bought uh, into the uh, the
food sector in in Brazil. We bought a
lot of the Burger Kings there and then
we bought the Starbucks and the Subway
out of bankruptcy. We did that in
partnership uh, with Mubatala which has
been uh, great so far and I think that
will be a a great uh, a great long-term
investment. And so we just look for
different types of companies. And then
now obviously with AI we're thinking how
can we apply AI to these businesses
which is helping us understand what the
limitations and what the capabilities
are of AI and how that will impact the
future of both conventional businesses
but also technology businesses.
>> You talked about how um uh your time in
government changed how you think about
you know how you can help these
businesses and you know who to do
business with.
>> Has it changed your underwriting at all?
like how you evaluate.
>> I'm not going to say we're going to be
right all the time, but I think where we
have some form of specialization is that
we're able to understand what are the
macro trends of a country and do we
think that the governance in place and
the leadership in place is pushing the
country in a direction that is uh
compatible with private sector
investment. Then my my general framework
of of what I came away from government
with is that government has limitations
and that government at their best can
set the right policy. And if you have
great leaders who can do that, you still
need the private sector to come and be
your partner in order to bring um
expertise, technical expertise. You need
them to bring project management
capability. You need them to bring
capital. And then they also need to have
local navigation skill. If you have
three out of those four things, it's a
recipe for disaster. So, uh the private
sector isn't always organized in a way
that governments need them to be in
order to affectuate their ambitions. But
if you can put that cocktail together in
a good way, um there there's amazing
potential for what can be achieved. And
you know, one example is, you know,
we're doing a big investment in Albania
now. Um that's a market that um when I
started uh looking at it 3 years ago, a
lot of my friends were saying I was
crazy. But what I saw there was a
country that had a ton of potential. You
know, you looked at where it was located
uh in Europe, the the place was
incredible. Uh and very very good
leadership for a while. They have a
prime minister, Eddie Rama, who's
actually, I think, a socialist
technically. Uh but he's, you know,
socialist that he's for the people, but
he's pro private sector, pro pro
business. and he's created an
environment with the rules and
regulations that's encouraging capital
investment in the country. And so and he
also is an artist uh by by training. So
he actually has amazing taste and he uh
really wants to make his country dynamic
in that regard. And so um so what we
helped there is we saw the right
elements as a government that was uh and
the raw uh material for a country to be
successful. But what we're bringing is
capital expertise uh you know great
designers, great brands and I think
we'll be able to uh help each other do
incredible in that scenario. And I have
a friend actually was there this summer
and and he called me after and he said,
"Jared, when you told me you were going
to Albania, I said, "How is somebody of
the world like you investing in some
place that's so outside of the world
like Albania?" And he called me after to
say, "Can I buy a house there and I want
to invest with you and I'm going to be
doing several projects there because I
think it's going to be an unbelievable
place." But but understanding governance
and the structure allowed us to see it
for what it was, not for what it
reputationally was perceived to be. And
uh again we obviously did a lot of
diligence and spent a lot of time trying
to validate those things and so far our
experience has been very very positive
there.
>> It's interesting to think that there are
like entire countries that are
underpriced or mispriced right now.
>> Yeah. Well, if you think about it
there's there's tens of thousands of
companies if not more and you could buy
your or sell them every day on the
market and those by and large are fairly
efficient. I mean there there there's
obviously inefficience inefficiencies as
well in public markets but it but it's
pretty efficient. But there's, you know,
roughly 200 plus countries and uh
they're all very inefficient and uh and
so there's always opportunities uh to
optimize and that's why they need the
private sector. And if you can
understand the countries that you think
have upside in it, you know, the the
number one thing I I've looked at is
like what are the big macro trends and I
think that that's I wouldn't call it our
number one criteria. It's just a
criteria, right? If you don't have the
right tailwinds behind you, you
shouldn't be investing. It's just much
easier to be with tailwinds than
headwinds. You know, I liken it to
surfing. If you're a mediocre surfer and
you surf, you know, terrible waves, it's
going to be bad. If you surf a great
wave, you'll look okay, right? The goal
is to obviously find amazing waves and
also to be an amazing surfer. Uh, but if
you're a great surfer, you have to make
sure you're going to the places where
you have the potential for a great wave.
So, those are the macro trends we look
at. And then obviously, we have our
criteria beneath that for what we look
at in order to make something qualifies
as an investment that we would uh look
to partake in. If you look at countries
that are it looks like they're going to
really participate in the future,
there's sort of the pre-existing
stalwarts. You know, there's the US and
uh Israel and in some ways China etc.
And then there's at least in Silicon
Valley some perception that some areas
are increasingly really engaging with
sort of being protect or progress. An
example would be Singapore, it'd be UAE.
what do you view as sort of the most uh
either underpriced or underappreciated
countries in the world either from a
technology perspective or more broadly
from just a general investment progress
you know forward-looking perspective
>> so so Singapore is like blue chip when I
was in when I was in government uh
anytime I was given a new problem I had
the desk where like all the really bad
problems when people were like we don't
know what to do with this you know let's
let's give it to Jared
>> um my first question was always okay
what do they do in Singapore right
because you know in government what I
learned is nothing even though every
problem seemed crazy like I started
reading a lot of history and then
studying other countries because nothing
was actually new under the sun. Every
problem I was dealing with, somebody had
dealt with it either at some time or in
some form or in some place and I wanted
to pull whatever learnings I could from
that in order to inform the approach I
was going to take. In some ways my lack
of experience was actually a benefit
because I approached every problem by
saying how could I, you know, learn from
the people who have done well and the
people who have failed in order to
effectuate that. So Singapore has just
been a very very steady example of a
country that's done a lot of the right
policies in the in the right ways for a
long time. Uh when I left government,
one of my strong instincts was that the
Middle East, you know, whether it was
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE, uh were places
that were very very much on the rise.
And I really had to kind of go back and
question myself because I wanted to make
sure I didn't have like a recency bias
from having spent so much time there and
having built such strong relationships
there. But a lot of the time when I was
helping them think through how do we
solve intractable political problems
like ISIS and Iran, you know, funding
proxies and and uh in different areas, a
lot of the efforts were around how do we
build strong economic ties with America?
How do we build strong economic ties
with Israel potentially? And what are
the win-win scenarios that economic
cooperation can bring to lift societies?
And so I saw a lot of ambition uh in
those places. And then obviously they're
uh probably more middle market countries
but they have um you know big uh big
tools available to them from an economic
perspective. And so when you put a
country's toolkit together with kind of
industry and capital uh there's a lot
that they can do to really accelerate
innovation. And obviously they all have
different forms of leadership but uh but
all committed um in different ways to to
big advancements. That's part of the
world uh very excited about. And then
Latin America I think that there's a lot
of opportunity there. I think um you
know after co there's a lot more um
hesitancy from US corporations to be
dependent on Asia for their supply
chain. So I think Mexico has been and
will continue to be a big beneficiary of
that. I think obviously under President
Trump he's trying to work out some
issues particularly with the cartels and
and and illegal uh immigration and then
to make sure we have kind of a fair and
balanced relationship. But the reality
is is that if we if we set that
relationship right, Mexico should be a
massive beneficiary uh from a rising US.
And I think so far the policies that
have been set forth of lowering taxes uh
lowering regulation uh it appears that
interest rates will probably come down
next year if we can get some of these
global conflicts uh resolved. Uh I think
Mexico will be a big bene beneficiary
along with the rest of Latin America of
a rising America. Speaking of just like
being focused on the biggest macro
trends, I'm biased here in thinking that
uh you know AI is probably the biggest
macro technology wave we're going to see
in our lifetimes. Um you and a lot and
uh Eric and Luis started a company
together around this. What can you tell
us about Brainco and and how it came
about?
>> Sure. So uh AI definitely as far as I'm
concerned is the biggest um technology
shift that I've seen in my lifetime. And
as an investor when something's changing
uh we felt it was very important to kind
of take a step back and say okay you
can't just assume that tomorrow is going
to be like yesterday. So, how do you go
and get a deep understanding of what
this change is going to be and how can
it either affect every investment you've
either made or will make in both a
positive way where it could add extra
margin or extra growth or extra value or
in a negative way where it creates
vulnerabilities for a business that you
maybe didn't anticipate before the
inevitability of AI became so
pronounced. And so, um, so it really uh
forced us to kind of take a moment and
stop. We looked at our portfolio. But we
started dealing uh even deeper with our
partners to understand kind of what
their ambitions were, what their needs
were. And what we saw was that there
were very few places where you can
actually apply AI in a thoughtful way
that didn't feel like um either they
were ineffective or ripoffs or more
happy talk solutions. And so we were
looking for real tangible solutions uh
for our portfolio and for our partners.
And so obviously A lot is somebody who
is is incredibly well respected um in
the US investing community but
particularly in AI with the way he's
been so far ahead of a lot of these uh
companies and seeing in investing in and
seeing the trends understanding them
seeing some of the best entrepreneurs uh
in America. And so we were having a
conversation I shared with Allah um some
of the frustration that that we felt at
not finding great solution providers for
our portfolio. Uh also my partner Luis
had been in the Middle East uh the week
earlier dealing with some of our
partners going through their uh AI
aspirations and roadmaps and they were
having a very similar uh frustration and
so uh we were sharing uh the learnings
with a lot and all in the way he does uh
says well let's start a company to do it
and we said that sounds great and so
that we really got to work we pulled in
our friend Eric Woo as well and the four
of us really set out to try and uh build
something and define what it could be
and the goal was really how do you uh
can create almost a frontier here AI
implementation company where you can
work with uh top clients from the most
uh impactful institutions and companies
in the world help them identify what the
best use cases can be where they can
apply AI either to make their companies
more efficient or where they can use AI
to create more productivity and growth
out of their uh revenue generating
opportunities and then what we do is we
work on uh scoping you know what the
capabilities are we can build the
technical solutions we can implement the
technical solutions
And then we can keep updating those
technical solutions as the base models
uh change as well. So much with AI right
now is what we're seeing is that the the
change that's happening is so rapid that
if you don't have a dynamic product and
you're not constantly up to date on
what's possible um then it's very very
possible you'll either do something that
will be obsolete very very quickly and
you have to understand both the trends
and the capabilities and have the right
team available to do that. So uh what we
saw in Silicon Valley is that they're
amazing at solving problems. They're not
always the best at identifying which
problems to solve. And we thought that
Brainco could be a great um a great way
to build the bridge between some of the
top problems that can be solved in AI
and a great team uh that can provide
solutions.
>> Yeah. And Brainco has a a sort of common
platform underlying it where there's a a
common set of things that are provided
to every customer and really is a piece
of infrastructure that's used and then
there are some incremental things that
can be built on top to help with
specific use cases that can then be
cross-sold into different verticals. And
so the idea is to basically do both the
platform side and then a subset of apps
that are resold over and over to the
world's biggest institutions. Um the
company I feel actually had like a few
almost like founding moments. There was
sort of the four of us helping to get it
up and running initially and then a
really key moment was Dan and Mura uh
joined and really became part of the
founding team and then later uh Clemens
has come on as the CEO of the company
and so there have been multiple key
parties really involved in terms of
setting this up and driving it and you
know making it what it is so far. what
do you think created uh the the gap um
given there's this much b like business
motivation to you know increase margins
or drive growth and even belief that
like AI is going to be part of the
solution and there's you know lots of uh
existing vendors out there that will do
like involved implementation projects
with large companies like why didn't it
get really just an implementation thing
it really is a platform company that a
common piece of infrastructure and then
it builds stuff on top of it Um, so I
think that's an important piece that
sort of uh both differentiation but also
the ability for one organization to
benefit across multiple different
aspects of that organization.
>> And how did you pick a set of use cases
or what informed the the the platform
itself?
>> But but I'll say Sarah to to your last
question and we'll get to that is that
what what I saw working with Thrive was
that there was some of the best
technologists often are building things
but it takes a while for big
corporations to want to take risks on
emerging technologies. And what I saw
when I was in government, I would deal
with the top CEOs or leaders in the
world. And most of them spend a lot of
their time, you know, just keeping their
job or managing their their very complex
large businesses. And so a lot of them
are hearing about AI and a lot of the
things that AI is capable of, but they
don't necessarily have the right people
around them or access to top
technologies in order to implement it
into their business. So um so that was
really kind of the problem we were
trying to solve is that a lot of the
people who have the best uh sandboxes to
deploy AI often don't have access to the
best talent and that was really where we
thought we could uh create
differentiation and so far proven that
but some of the use cases do you want to
start with some of the use cases?
>> You should go for it. Yeah,
>> sure. So uh we have a wide array a wide
range of use cases that have come either
through our portfolio or some of our
partnerships uh to date and uh quite
frankly um the more uh other of our
partners see the capabilities we have
the more they're now starting to uh use
it for their portfolio. So we're
constrained really by the talent we can
hire um and and the time we have in
healthcare we're working on how to you
know improve patient experience and
throughput time and data to to lower
cost and also give better experience. Uh
we've been working in the hospitality
space to figure out how to work through
um some of the clusters that come
through reservations to make sure that
uh you know people are able to do
bookings in a much more efficient way.
Uh we're doing it in the insurance space
uh where we have some very very good use
cases to help claims management um you
know go much faster and be more
efficient in that regard. And uh one
that I'm actually really quite excited
about having had a background in real
estate as we're working on something in
uh construction permitting which is uh
we found a government that has
incredibly digitized records and was
willing to after some time and and trust
willing to kind of really let our team
uh go to work in there. And what we saw
was they had a a process that was over
40 steps. And we thought in the
beginning when we were doing it that if
we could get uh the AI to be able to
determine uh to to create with over 90%
efficiency uh on one of the steps, we
thought that would be a big success. And
um and what we saw is like you take a a
construction permit, you make this big
application, you submit it, you usually
you have to pay big consultants, then it
takes, you know, 3 4 months to get your
your approval with AI to take three
minutes. And so we really attacked this
problem. We didn't necessarily realize
at the time we were doing a little bit
more of a research project than we we we
anticipated. But now we've been able to
accomplish two things. Number one, the
client is now going to reduce the amount
of steps that they have in their process
to get the permit right because by you
know building all of the uh the the
processes for to deploy the AI they
realized that the process that had been
designed uh by humans uh was not
necessarily efficient. they could reduce
over 10 of the step 10 steps in the
process through that time. The second
thing was is that as the different
updates came through the models. One of
the issues we had was how do you convert
uh the spatial plans that were being
submitted into the right ways for the AI
to then read it and score it and that
actually uh changed when one of the
updates uh came in one of the models. So
uh so as we've been able to evolve uh
the product we found that we're now over
on I think it's over like 35 steps uh
over 90% accuracy on all 35 steps which
has become uh really really uh
satisfying for us. And so I think this
will save obviously the government and
their uh customers a ton of you know
time and money. It it gets rid of a lot
of the consultants who are you know just
charging fees to do uh busy work and
quite frankly it's the type of task that
can be automated uh which I think will
create a lot of economic value and also
uh allow the developers to you know
build faster means they pay taxes faster
and from the government's perspective it
also gets rid of you know graft and
corruption because it is one of these
things where you're relying on a lot of
human judgment in a very um you know
opaque way that quite frankly shouldn't
be that way if this technology uh can do
what we're seeing that it has the
ability to do. That's such a great use
case and it sounds like you're you're
serving businesses, you're serving
governments and also assuming it's not
well I won't assume but if it's not the
US government then you're also serving
globally.
>> Yes. Uh yes,
>> some of these customers are um some of
the world's largest and most important
institutions. And so one of the things I
was um struck by in terms of working
with this company on Brainco is um there
was a very strong prove it to us sort of
mentality going to in a lot of these um
a lot of these customers and uh the team
really had to show up show technical
excellence show value etc before really
converting them into a customer. And so
initially we were doing a lot of things
at risk just to be able to prove that
yes we have the technical tops and
capabilities and it really is some of
the world's best engineers from all the
top institutions that we know in Silicon
Valley um helping to implement and
facilitate these really important
valuable use cases for them. So I think
that was a really key part of it is just
these were kind of tough deals because
to your point earlier normally with a
startup you start with SMB and then you
go mid-market and then eventually seven
years later you have enterprises and
this was let's just jump seven years
ahead and go to the world's biggest
enterprises but then it became a very
strong okay show us you can really do
this well
>> and one thing I I give a lot of credit
for a lot of things in structuring the
business and helping us keep refining
kind of what the optimal products uh
were to build and how to go forward with
it but uh we were able to get some very
large institutions to give us a chance
initially to uh to to try and scope out
and see if we can create solutions for
them. But Elot's ability to recruit you
know top talent and what you know him,
Eric, Luis uh Dan Mir and the team have
been able to do has been really
incredible. So now it's over 40 people
growing very rapidly and uh we find that
it's just it's uh there's so many uh
real life cases where you could apply AI
and quite frankly from my perspective
you know at affinity we're usually
writing much larger checks in later
stage uh companies but was appealing to
me about this was that with this
technology transformation if you have
the ability to work with top talent and
really be on the cutting edge of seeing
how the AI is advancing how it's being
applied understanding real use cases I
felt like that was a critical um
perspective to develop for being an
investor uh today in this changing
world.
>> That resonates and then especially if
you actually think it can change the
growth or margin profile of a business.
>> Well, it is I mean we're we're seeing it
you know real ways in different
companies that we're implementing in
that it is
>> then it should be you know also a um a
weapon for you know the portfolio at
least the expertise.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you think the biggest challenge
for the company going forward is?
>> It's very early. I I think it's um right
now it's just continuing to keep up with
the demand of projects that we have.
Make sure um that we're focused on the
right projects, not the wrong projects,
and uh make sure we can continue to
attract the right amount of talent uh to
uh not uh dilute ourselves to keep up
with the fast pace of demand that we
have. So, uh I think the team's done a
great job of keeping a high bar on
talent and making sure we just continue
to, you know, work with, you know, with
great customers. So far in some of our
early customers, they've been uh really
expanding uh the scope that they've been
asking the team to do because they're
realizing what a great capability it is
and so uh that's been very gratifying to
see. So I think that uh there's a lot of
opportunity to go much bigger with some
of our existing customers uh because
they have you know multiple you know
companies or multiple divisions and word
starting to get out as they achieve
success that these are the guys who can
you know apply AI in a very very uh
thoughtful and um and and costbeneficial
way. What makes some somebody a good
customer like the right type of early
customer for you? I
>> I would start with uh do they have a
complex problem um that we think there's
a lot of efficiency to be created by
applying AI. Uh number two is do they
have the right data um that we can use
in order to create the solution. Uh
number three is do they have the right
command and control structure in the
company where people are willing to buy
into it because you could have one or
two but if you have a lot of resistance
you know in the ranks or in leadership
and they're not willing to kind of force
people to try um there can be a lot of
resistance because people are afraid of
change you know change is like heaven
everyone wants to go there but nobody
wants to die. And what we found is that
some of the people who were our uh most
um our most resistant initially once
they see what this can do for them and
how much better it's making them at
their job uh they're actually becoming
our biggest champions. And so that's
been very gratifying to see in some of
the customers um so far.
>> Yeah, the biggest the biggest obstacle
to AI implementation in enterprises
tends to be people processes you know
organizational redesign. And it has less
to do with the technology sometimes than
rejiggering things so the technology can
actually be placed into the workflow or
placed into the organization. Um but I
agree with Jared that it seems like um
there's a lot of interest and a lot of
demand for people wanting to work with
us. We want to make sure that the
platform side of it actually fits in
terms of what we're doing and then the
focus has really been can we work with
the world's biggest and most important
institutions versus every smaller
company that's kind of interested in
doing something. So it's trying to
select for sort of the the giants who
are driving the world forward in
different ways. We started this in
January of 24 and so it's been amazing
to see since then. Um you know obviously
it took some time to get going and to
really you know finalize the idea but
it's been amazing since then to see how
much even the underlying technology has
changed and uh but I think our central
premise has remained pretty uh pretty
consistent since then.
>> One of the ways you got involved in AI
even earlier was you know from a like a
policy lens right I guess. What has been
most interesting to you on that front or
in sort of the geopolitical um
perspective of how let's say like energy
and our relations with Middle Eastern
countries play into like the future of
AI?
>> Yeah. So uh so from a policy perspective
when we were when I was in the White
House the first time under President
Trump uh this was part of uh the efforts
that that he was saying he wanted to
focus on and at his direction actually I
reached out to TSMC uh and was in touch
with them then to uh push them to try
and start doing some uh uh production of
the air fabs in uh in the US and we we
pushed them to Arizona which uh I think
is now the foundation of what hopefully
will be a much bigger deployments.
That's obviously a very critical uh
element. I think from a policy
perspective, u the way that uh President
Trump has put out his policy so far, I
think David Sax's done a fabulous job. I
think their plan is the right plan. We
need to do two main things, which is one
is make sure we have all the tools to
compete, which is uh really accelerate
our ability to build energy in the US. I
think that'll be really really bad if
we're we're constrained on that. And I
think they've taken a lot of uh steps to
do that. It's not like a a switch you
can flick. So it takes time but you need
to obviously make the permitting uh
process a lot better and I think in
America our capital our private sector
is so dynamic that the capital formation
will occur to uh help us build all the
energy and the data centers that we
need. I think the government could help
us do that. So we need to create the
environment.
>> We need the sevenyear cycle for nuclear
to get 90% more efficient.
>> You think it's nuclear? Do you think
it's something else? Like what do you
think from an energy perspective are the
the areas that need to move fastest? I'm
guessing it's a mix of everything, but
are there things that stand out the most
that
>> So, the thing I saw actually, and this
was in one of the investments I was
looking at about 2 years ago, we ended
up not doing it. It was a battery
company uh here in the US, but there was
one graph that my team showed me that
actually made me quite optimistic, which
was that in the US we have about 1 point
1,300 gawatt of energy. Um, but what
they showed me is that there's about
2,000 gawatts of energy that was waiting
for permits from the FK, which was quite
actually optimistic. It shows that the
US um has a lot of private sector
interest. uh we just need the government
to get out of the way and to allow us to
do what we want to do. And so it's
complex, but I think that uh what we saw
under under the last four years under
the Biden administration was that uh it
was just kind of a war on business uh an
overregulated environment. And um they
said some of the right things, but there
was no effort towards trying to kind of
uh relieve that bottleneck. And so now I
know there's a very intense effort to
relieve that bottleneck and to try to
stimulate the growth of energy. I think
the second part uh which also was on the
AI road map um that President Trump put
out was really to figure out how can you
just stimulate as much innovation as
possible and you see the regulation they
put on in Europe and that's why there's
really not a whole lot happening in
Europe on the AI front right now uh
which isn't necessarily bad for America
but I think the goal is to not
overregulate before we kind of know what
to regulate. I think if you're a
regulator if you're a politician you see
this coming you want to focus on what
are the worst case scenarios and then
think about how you regulate because
that's kind of all you do. I think right
now we can uh stimulate trying to bring
the best talent to the US uh in order to
have them focusing um on this problem
here where I think everyone does want to
be innovating and number two is creating
the most dynamic environments that we
can do uh the most amount of innovation
in AI as possible so that we can be the
global leader uh and usher uh this uh
technology into the world under the
guise of US values. It's been a surprise
to me how uh much of an emergent player
certain Middle Eastern countries have
been within AI as both like an energy
and potential energy and capital
provider. Um what's your take on this?
>> So they've been focused on this for a
while. I remember I was over in u in UAE
in 2018. We were working on the Abraham
Accords and was trying to make progress
and uh Shik Taknon who's a good friend
of mine said I won't meet you on on this
topic unless uh you stay in after and
see what I'm doing AI. And I said look I
don't really have time with this you
know but but he made me see after and I
was quite impressed I mean I didn't
think much of it after uh but um and I
know um you know in Saudi MBS has been
very focused UAE his brother MBZ also
very focused and in Qatar also the Amir
and and the and the prime minister Shake
Muhammad incredibly incredibly focused
on AI and they all have different
>> why is that by the way like why do they
all get interested in it especially in
that era? I think they all talk to each
other a lot and I think that there's
definitely competition but I think they
all have their unique advantages and
different ways that they could play it.
Like Saudi has a much bigger domestic
market. Um I think UAE obviously wants
to be a big investor in it. Um and uh
and I think they want to uh implement it
in their country as well. All three want
to implement it in their country. But
what we've been doing is understanding
what their different ambitions are and
we've been uh connecting them to a lot
of the leading uh USI companies.
obviously hoping that they do
partnerships and and invest in and
create uh with US companies over Asian
companies which we think would be much
better for the US uh and where we have I
think you know great capabilities uh but
what they also have is is tremendous uh
sandbox in in the sense that they have
companies they have governments they
have data um and they're able to really
be a great partner to a lot of these AI
companies in order to create uh tools
applications and even companies uh that
you can build off of um off of what
they're capable of doing. So I actually
think they're going to become a very
significant not just investor but also
partner in creating AI tools and
capabilities that can then go from there
to the rest of the world.
>> You have um an amazing set of
relationships but I think it comes from
an even more impressive stint in
diplomacy without prior experience. I'm
allowed to say that. um you described as
like a you know uh intense PhD both the
the region and also geopolitics like
tell us about the experience of like
learning well first of all maybe the
ambition of um what you were tasked with
doing in the Middle East and then uh the
the learning experience of trying to be
effective and eventually the Abraham
Accords and such.
>> Sure. So I got tasked with the Middle
East I think almost by accident. And the
way it kind of came about was um we my
I'd worked very hard on my
father-in-law's campaign in 2016. and he
had almost a family campaign because
people were told that if you worked for
Donald Trump, uh, you would never get a
job in politics again. So, um, you know,
the campaign was going, he said, "Try
this, work on this, work on this." Next
thing I knew, I was running a lot of the
aspects of his campaign. And my wife and
I were in New Jersey for a weekend after
he won. He said, you know, would you
like to join us? Please come join me in
Washington. I don't, you know, I think
his first night that he ever slept in
Washington was in the White House. So,
he wasn't a governor. He wasn't a mayor.
He didn't really have experience there,
but my wife worked with him in in in his
company, so he had run family business
and I obviously worked him closely on
the campaign. And so he wanted people
with him who he could trust. So we were
thinking about it. It would have been a
big life change uh for us. And I got a
call uh that weekend uh from the PR
person for my family's real estate
company who said, I got a call from the
New York Times. They said, "You're going
to Washington and uh you're going to be
working on Middle East peace." And I
said, "Well, that's not true." I said,
"I I I we haven't made a decision yet."
And I said, "Well, you know, they I
called back said, "Well, their source is
Donald Trump." And he was doing an
interview with them and he said, "Of
course, Jared's coming to Washington and
he's going to work on Middle East
peace." So, that was kind of how I got
the job, uh, working on Middle East. And
the next day on the front page of the
New York Times, there were stories,
who's Jared Kushner? What does he know
about Middle East? And the answer was
nothing. No, nobody, you know, nobody
knew me there. Um, but if that's what my
father-in-law asked me to do, uh, I went
about it trying to figure out what was
possible. So, I really spent probably
the first six months to a year asking
questions, you know, and and, um, you
know, asking people some version of what
would you do if you were us, you know,
what do you think are the solutions? Uh,
I've always learned in business it's
it's sometimes better to study all the
things that have failed and understand
why they failed. Uh, and you learn a lot
from that. Um, versus, you know,
listening to the, uh, you know,
professionals and the experts. Um, I
found in Washington it was amusing that
only in Washington you could fail at
something for for for a decade or two
and then be considered an expert on on
what to do about it. So I started
working on it. The goal was really to
figure out how do you get through some
of the conflicts and bring people
together. Uh, at the time we had ISIS
had a caliphate the size of Ohio. They
were beheading journalists. Uh, they
were overruling about 8 million people.
So that was a big problem. Obama had
just done the Iran deal, signed the
JCPOA, and in the Gulf felt very uh
betrayed because they said Obama went
behind our back uh and went to Persia
and they were very surprised by that. So
they actually told me they were starting
to learn Chinese and and push their
alliance towards uh towards China and
because they thought the US was no
longer a reliable partner. So that was
basically what we inherited. And so
perhaps my father-in-law thought it
couldn't get any worse, which is why he
told me to work on it. But uh but what I
basically did was I I went around asked
questions. Um and I just thought I built
a lot of trust by trying to build
collaborative ideas. And what was
interesting about my diplomacy was that
I I really tried to get everyone focused
on what are the defined endstates. And
if we could agree on the end state,
we're not sitting across from the table
from each other. We're actually sitting
on the same side of the table trying to
accomplish a shared goal. And then we
would keep iterating on how to get
there. And I always joke um with the
Abraham Accords that we we were
successful on on plan C, but only
because we went through the alphabet
like three times and failed at every
letter along the way. But every time we
failed, we just never gave up. We were
very determined. We knew the goal was
virtuous. We knew it was important.
>> Well, you had a velocity of improvement
that wasn't 10 years of doing the same
thing repeatedly and failing. Yeah.
>> You know what it it was interesting too.
I I see this in politics where people
are afraid to take on hard things,
right? you guys are in Silicon Valley
where everyone who comes into your
office every day is saying we are going
to take on this impossible task and
that's celebrated and if you fail uh you
know doing it then you start another
company or you know that's a culture
that's celebrated in politics everyone's
afraid to take on hard things because
they know that there's a high
probability of failure
>> um and so as a result they don't try and
so it was interesting I mean you look at
all the articles if you go back at how
much I was criticized by everyone for
trying to take on these hard problems uh
all the experts were saying I was doing
it not in the way that they did. And I
said, "Why would I do it the way you did
it? You failed." Like, "Let me just if
I'm going to fail at a hard problem, at
least let me fail in an original way,
new data."
>> And um and so that was kind of uh it was
almost bring like a first principles
approach to diplomacy and uh and a lot
of it had to do with just building
relationships and building trust.
>> Where was the conventional wisdom most
strong about the Middle East?
>> I mean, it started by saying that you
could not get the Arabs together with
Israel until you solve the Palestinian
issue.
>> Um and I had an assessment of that issue
which felt like it was a riddle designed
not to be solved. And I felt like what
we can do is instead of getting people
to look backwards, we can get them to
look forwards and that um and that joint
interests are are very very critical. So
the joint interests at the time were
number one security. People were very
afraid of Iran. So Iran in some ways
drove people together and I think they
continue to drive people together by
being a menace to to all sides. Um and
then number two was what are the uh
benefits you can get? You know, we
talked about AI and technology. I think
that the uh the match of uh Israel's uh
you know burgeoning AI and technology
scene and and the aspirations in the AI
and burgeoning scene in the Gulf,
there's a lot of desire to be together
and I think that those aspirations
actually have driven a lot of the shift
uh that we've seen.
>> I think a lot of people aren't aware of
how many different treaties or peace
treaties came out of this. Could do you
mind just quickly kind of enumerating
those because I think it's quite
striking. So the first one was Israel
UAE which was um it took me three and a
half years uh to do it which was really
incredible and and obviously you know I
give uh President Trump a ton of credit
because number one uh he believed in it
the whole time and he was the one even
when I was getting criticized and he was
getting criticized for having me there
he would always call me and say hey
they're saying this what do you think
and I would say no this is why I'm doing
it and he say well that makes sense to
me so keep going and so you know he
really believed in in the vision and and
pushed forward with it which was
critical and you've seen even now but
that's really who trained me, right? His
whole view was, you know, we should go
to the pragmatic form as to what people
are are actually fighting about and
let's come up with the best solution,
right? And and and a lot of these
outcomes are arbitrary because they're
negotiated in in that regard. So, you
have to find ways for people to move
forward and be together. And so, we got
UAE and Israel came together for the
first one. Then, after that, we were
able to get Bahrain to join uh the
Abraham Accords. Uh then we got Sudan,
which now unfortunately has gone
backwards. uh but they're still uh
technically a signatory to the Abraham
Accords. And then we got Morocco uh to
join as well. We also got a deal with
Serbia and Kosovo where Kosovo uh uh
wanted to join the Abraham Accords as
well. Um and then at the end the final
agreement we were able to get and this
is all from like August 2020
up until the last deal was January 6th
uh 2021. Uh we got the GCC dispute
solved which was between uh Qatar with
uh Saudi, UAE, Egypt and Bahrain and
that was a real tough one. Um we got
that one resolved which I thought would
have uh paved the way for Saudi to then
join the Abraham Accords which would
have led to Indonesia and Pakistan all
the others. So, we still have a long
list and and right now um uh President
Trump is very focused on the next phase
of getting uh more countries to join the
Abraham Accords and Ambassador Steve
Wickoff is doing an amazing job uh
leading that effort and I think that
there's a a long list of people uh who
will want to join that uh once uh the
current issues with Gaza are are
resolved which hopefully will be very
soon. So, one analysis that I saw, the
claim was that one of the reasons that
Hamas attacked Israel on October 7th,
uh, was in part due to the fact that
Israel and Saudi were getting
increasingly close to a peace deal and
it was a way to kind of disrupt that
process and in general, you know, Hamas,
the Houthis, Hezbollah are to some
extent proxies for Iran in terms of
funding and arms and other things. You
know, how do you think that all evolves
or what do you think happens from Middle
Eastern peace process going forward?
What do you think happens in Gaza? Like,
is there anything you can talk about
there?
>> Yeah. So when President Trump left in
2021,
uh a deal with Saudi could have been
done in 3 to 6 months. And that was
basically what I passed over to the
previous uh administration uh during the
transition. Um they chose to uh go 180
from all the different policies that
President Trump had simply because they
were his policies. But I think that u we
basically inherited a Middle East that
was a disaster and left it pretty stable
and with a lot of momentum. uh it took
them two years to then say, "Wait, maybe
we should focus on the Saudi thing." And
what got them to focus on it was that um
was that China ended up getting involved
to negotiate a deal between Saudi and
the Houthis to stop some of that that
issue in Yemen. And uh and so when when
Saudi got involved, when China got
involved, the US said, "Oh, we don't
want to be outdone." Then they ran over
and finally started um focusing on this
issue which I think would be a a
historic issue to really resolve this
tension between Israel and Saudi and
then get full normalization which I
think is much better for lifting the
region. So they were doing that very
publicly and I think that there
definitely was a desire on their part to
stop it. But what's happened since
October
>> part you mean uh Hamas or Iran? uh both
I think from Iran and Hamas's desire to
stop that normalization because that
normalization means that the the
division that Iran has used in order to
justify their existence no longer is
justified right so what does Iran use
their they call their uh their army the
goods force is is Jerusalem they have
the Alaka brigade for the Alaka mosque
and they use this notion that Israel is
trying to destroy the mosque or that
they're fighting to liberate Jerusalem
when the reality is is Israel will let
any Muslim or Arab who wants to come
there come as long as they want to come
peacefully So they almost need this
cause to stay out there in order to
justify their existence as a
revolutionary government. So when you
look at where we are now after October
7th, Israel's now had uh again it's been
at huge cost, you know, in all regards,
but Hezbollah is basically uh
decapitated. Iran is now weaker than
they've ever been, right, with their
nuclear program set back a long way. Um,
you know, the Houthis in Yemen didn't
haven't been having a great month and
Hamas and and uh and Gaza is basically
destroyed. And so now they have an
opportunity to convert those uh those
military victories into political
victories. But what you have to do is
find a resolution in Gaza. If you're
able to find a satisfactory resolution
there, I mean, Israel obviously would
love to get their hostages back. I mean,
I think that's that's a critical
critical element. And then once you do
that and and you want to find a
humanitarian way to uh to make sure the
population there of civilians is not
negatively impacted by uh by the the
horrific um leadership that Hamas has
brought on and the conflict that's
ensued. Um then I think you can get to a
place where the full normalization
happens with Saudi and Israel. Um I
think you really are able to then just
get everyone doing business, getting to
know each other. If you look at what's
happening now in Syria and Lebanon, both
have new leadership. Hezbollah is
destroyed uh by Hezbollah being
destroyed that meant that Syria uh is
looking to be much more stable. Lebanon
is looking to much much more stable and
with the Iranian influence out of there.
It looks like Israel has a real chance
to make stability there as well. And I
know Ambassador Barrick has been working
very hard on that under Secretary Rubio
and President Trump's direction. So I
actually think the board is is is could
be amazingly positive, but we need to
get the Gaza issue uh resolved. And I
know President Trump and uh Steve
Wickoff are working incredibly hard on
that and I do believe that they will be
successful and then uh big progress will
be made soon thereafter. some of the uh
companies that you are invested in now
have like very surprising business
relationships and backers and I I feel
like uh you know through brokering some
of these relationships between Arabs and
Israelis for example you're really
proving the point that people can build
you know normal relations and effective
business relations um in ways people
wouldn't have believed before. Can you
talk a little bit about that? That was
one of the things that I've actually
been most excited about, but also most
cautious about in pursuing the
investment. So, a lot of my investment
uh investors come from the Middle East,
uh from the Gulf countries. Uh but I
really wanted to show them uh the good
experiences that they could have
investing in Israel. And uh the criteria
we've used for that is number one to
only be with the Bluest Chip uh
partners. And our two investments in
Israel have both performed very well,
but have also uh been with with top tier
firms. Uh, one of the ones we got the
most scrutiny on was we invested in a
company called Phoenix Holdings, which
is, uh, the number one financial
institution in Israel. They're they're a
monster company. They manage about 160
billion. Uh, we became their largest
shareholder, but we invested uh, in July
of last year, which was right before the
war in the north with Hezbollah uh,
basically started. And I remember at the
time we made the decision, we had very
intense discussions in our investment
committee because they said, "Look,
there's about to be a war in the
country," which is what we kind of
thought was going to happen. and uh
said, "How do we explain this to the
investors if it goes wrong?" And I said,
"Well, number one, it's not a bad thing
to have them more vested uh in the
economy of Israel now, but I feel like
the pricing that we were able to get at
the time was very um very advantageous
given what was possible." So, uh we
invested then at about $37 a share.
Today, the stock's almost uh $120 a
share. Uh because we needed a uh
approval from the regulator, we bought
4.9 then and then another 4.9 later. Uh
so, we're able to use better leverage
because the shares went up quite a bit.
And so it's been almost a nine times uh
return on the investment in just over a
year so far, which has been uh you know
quite strong. So obviously my investors
from the Middle East are now looking at
Israel and they're saying, "Wait a
minute, maybe there's a benefit to
having these wars done and they're
seeing a good example there." And so uh
that's been very very uh satisfying to
be able to explain to them the benefits
of being together and the positive
results that can come from being
invested together. The next phase of
that is is Phoenix which is a monster
company is now looking at investments in
Saudi Arabia, investments in UAE and
basically thinking how can they start
deploying their huge amounts of capital
into infrastructure projects in the
region next to it which again is just
further going to bring people together.
They have a great retirement savings
program. How can they take that
retirement savings program over to some
of the Gulf countries as well? So, it's
been very interesting to foster some of
these connections together. And then
when you get, you know, an Arab and
Israeli together and they start talking
about a business opportunity, they
forget about everything else and then
they realize that there's a lot of
similarities. And you go in the Middle
East right before uh before the 1940s
for a thousand years, the Jews and the
Muslims lived, you know, basically side
by side in the region. And I think
through business and through building
these relationships, you find ways um to
bring people back together. So, uh
again, that's one of the positive
things. I mean, when in my business, I
try to work with, you know, founders I
love on on companies I I'm I'm excited
about and on missions that I think could
be uh productive. And I find with deals
like this, it's it's just extra
rewarding to be able to work with uh,
you know, with great people and then to
help build relationships and perspective
and knowledge for both sides that
probably wouldn't have existed
otherwise.
>> It's been a wide-ranging conversation.
Uh, can I ask a really micro question up
close? You and Ivanka have built this
incredible partnership across business
and politics and also raising a family
together. I look at this with great
interest given I you know I feel I am
part of two partnerships mine at
conviction professionally and then also
me and my husband Pat. Um have you done
that like what's the framework for it?
>> So it's funny a lot of people always try
to give advice on marriage but the one
that I always felt was the most
important is marry the right person and
so I'm very very blessed that I married
an incredible person. Ivanka has been a
great partner uh to me in all the
different phases of our life. We
obviously had our New York phase which
we were building our businesses, we were
starting our family and then we had the
Washington phase which was a lot more
you know just survival every day and she
was supporting me with my efforts. I was
supporting her with her efforts but uh
constantly under attack investigations.
I mean now you're seeing all this stuff
about how these Russia investigations
were totally you know made up. Well, you
know, I spent 33 hours uh doing
congressional uh subpoenas, testimony,
special counsel, uh grand jury
testimony. I mean, those were very
intense times and and Ivanka was an
amazing uh partner and support to me in
my my weakest times there. Uh when we
left Washington,
um the the focus uh for me was now to,
you know, start a new business. we moved
down to Florida and Ivanka said that
after so many years of being public and
so many years of either building a
business or you know doing her her
policy work which helped a lot of people
uh through her different efforts she
wanted to focus on being a mother and
really raising our family and she's done
an incredible job uh doing that over the
last years. I think our kids are all
thriving uh really thanks to her uh
amazing uh amazing job as a mother and
um then in my business she's been a
great partner and so she's been making
investments uh she's been helping us um
uh a lot on on some of our early uh
stage investments that we make in AI and
other areas and she she has a very good
track record uh of of doing those
investments and a lot's helped her with
uh some connections and uh and they've
worked together on some great things but
uh but yeah she's just been an amazing
partner very very special person and I'm
very very lucky to have her uh as my So
you made the transition from the private
sector to the public center sector.
Obviously had a really big impact while
you were there. Right now there's a lot
of different people that I know in
Silicon Valley who are moving out to
help with different aspects of
government in a way that I haven't seen
people show up before and these are
really exceptional people who I think
have accomplished a lot in their careers
over time in tech and now they're coming
in and helping out in government. What
should a private sector person expect
when they get to DC? It's a completely
different world and I think you have to
understand that it's a different system
design. But if you spend the time to
understand the system, there's
tremendous amounts of positive things
that could be accomplished from doing
it. And when I left government, I'd say
the primary reason why I wrote my book
was because I wanted to encourage people
from the private sector to then go and
serve in government. And one of the
things I've been so satisfied by seeing
in Trump's second term is that um you
know with the work that Elon started
with Doge and with the great work of the
the PO group uh I mean the people that
they're hiring now at like third and
fourth levels into the government are
better than the people who were willing
to come work for us at the top levels in
the first administration. So President
Trump has an amazing cabinet, amazing
team, incredible bench of talent. And
what we're seeing with uh with Doge and
what how it's still persisted is that
there's a great group of people from the
private sector who are there every day
renegotiating contracts. I speak to
them, they say honestly, they've never
had such easy negotiations in their life
and they're saving a billion here, a
billion there. And um and it's just
there's so much lowhanging fruit there.
It's just a place where a there hasn't
had a president who's willing to empower
people to go and you know make deals and
let them lose to try and change things.
And I think the more that people from
the private sector go in, number one,
they'll learn how the government works.
And the government obviously is a
massive uh organization that has big
impact on all of our lives uh in so many
different ways. But I think people are
finding that the differences that they
can have will be quite um quite quite
huge. I mean, Joe Gabby just got
announced as the chief design officer
for the US. I know Antonio Gracias has
done amazing work helping uh figure out
how to get, you know, make sure we're
only paying social security. I think he
saved over 10 billion a year so far.
from that and I think that all these
guys are coming away with the experience
where they're feeling uh enriched from
the contribution from the contributions
they've been able to make to a country
that's done so much for them that
enables these platforms uh that they
want to build. Uh but I think it's just
a great place and I think it's a great
opportunity for people to go in
especially during this administration uh
because they'll be allowed to do things
and make big change. And I think the
more we do that I hope that we have more
people do it like the founding fathers
uh kind of designed where you know you
leave your farm you go do your service
and you go back to your farm. I think
here maybe it's you leave your office
you know you do your service go back to
your office. Um, but I think that it's
very very important to have private
sector people going into government
doing tours of duty uh versus just
having a permanent political class uh
which I think is uh is not necessarily
great for the long-term uh interests of
America.
>> Yeah, it used to be an embedded part of
the business community to say that
there's enormous both patriotism and
value in terms of going in and sort of
doing a a term in uh a government or
sort of helping out in different ways
along those lines. I guess often people
are motivated by those altruistic
reasons and then there's almost like the
selfish reasons to do it. What do you
think are some of the selfish reasons?
You're a 25-year-old engineer and you
have a great offer from an open AI or
you know another major sort of tech
company. Why should you go into
government instead right now?
>> So I think there's like a quote that's
attributed to Einstein. He gets a lot of
quotes. I don't know if if he said them
all or not which is once your mind
expands it never returns to its original
size. And I think that uh it goes to
what we were saying uh initially about
how when you're in business and you're
looking at things with a different lens
sometimes you see uh different uh
opportunities or different solutions. I
think going into government number one
if you go there you'll definitely make a
contribution and you'll feel uh good
about the fact that things are different
in the world because of you. You'll know
that whether you get recognition for or
not for that doesn't matter. Um but I
think that I look at my experience right
again it was four very very hard years.
I mean, it cost me millions of dollars
in legal fees. It was stressful. I dealt
with, you know, some unbelievably uh
>> It was actually one of the things that
shocked me as I got to know you and
Ivanka was a degree to which you were
vilified in the press and then you'd
meet both of you in person and you know,
you when I've asked because before we
started working on Branco together, I
actually asked around different people
to you know, I was like just in case
like is there anything there like is it
because there was so much negativity
>> and everybody basically said you're a
mench, you know, good person, tries to
help whenever he can, etc. Same with
Ivanka. And as I got to know you, I'm
like, "Oh my god, these people are super
smart. They're clear thinkers. They're
always trying to do the right thing."
And yet they got completely vilified. So
I always thought that was almost like a
um a travesty in terms of how those
things can happen.
>> We were very very fortunate to have the
opportunity to make the impact. And the
way I would say to Vanka at the time is
that every opportunity in life has a
cost. And if this is the cost of what we
have to bear, it's a small cost relative
to the opportunity we have to make an
impact. Now, I kind of just accepted
that that was the deal. Um, and I think
now the fact that people recognize the
work a lot more is obviously an extra
benefit because I think that we can use
it to hopefully inspire more people to
come in and do the work. But yeah, it
was a very um it was a very interesting
time uh in our country and a very
interesting time to serve. But I think
that in some ways like I was talking
with my brother about this how almost
because it was so unpopular to be in in
the government at that time uh we
weren't spending time doing things other
than working. So we just put our heads
down. We just got the work done. We
weren't being invited to
So our view was like well let's just
spend our time working and then I think
that's ultimately what led to a lot of
the successes we had was just the
maniacal focus on the task at hand. We
never took for granted how lucky we were
to have the opportunity to serve and and
to make an impact and we relished it
every day and every day we woke up. I
think one of the things that that made
us successful there was every day, you
know, we viewed it and said, you know,
it's it's sand through an hourglass
sometime at some point it's going to be
over and how can we use every minute to
make as much impact as possible. Um, and
I would say the benefits we got from it
was we made some incredible incredible
friends. Uh, we learned uh a lot about,
you know, our country. We learned a lot
about the world. We made incredible uh
contacts around the world. And I think
we have a much more refined
understanding for how the world actually
works. And then it's been fun for me to
apply uh that to the business world
which has only brought me closer with
the relationships I've built through
that process um and allowed me to kind
of find ways to create almost the
private sector solution that I wish that
I had when I was in government in order
to hopefully effectuate a lot of the
positive um missions that I thought were
important uh doing from the government
side.
>> So I guess to finish off the 25-year-old
engineer point is you know there's
obviously the altruistic impact on the
world. Um, I guess there are certain
things they can learn along the way or
how else do you think about the benefits
of going into government right now?
>> You'll learn a ton. Uh, you'll meet a
lot of interesting people from different
backgrounds. Um, and you will uh
definitely leave with uh with a
different perspective on appreciation
for our country, uh, appreciation for
uh, what's possible. And I think you'll
learn a lot along the way. So, I I view
it almost like a like it's it's it's a
two-year business school stint where you
go in, you're obviously leaving behind a
lucrative career, but you're going to
leave um hopefully in a better place
than where you found and you'll feel
good about the fact that you're doing it
as well. So, and you can make a big
impact.
>> So, one of the ways that you've
described to me the kind of role that
you like to play is almost like a
chairman style role in terms of
businesses you get involved with, in
terms of things you help build, in terms
of different dynamics of what you do in
general. Could you could you extrapolate
or explain what that means and how
you've been doing that? I I've been CEO
before and I I like operating things,
but what I'm enjoying about this phase
of being an investor in other companies
is the ability to really spend your time
on just the most critical things. Anyone
who's been a CEO knows that there's uh
mission critical things and then there's
minutiae and there's things you have to
do to kind of run a business. And um a
lot of this phase of my life I'm trying
to design how do you kind of spend your
time with the people you want to be be
spending your time with uh on the best
problems and doing the things that
utilize your best skill sets in in the
best way. So uh so I've really been
enjoying that with different companies
because I get to sit with incredible
CEOs uh and I get to work with them on
what are their big aspirations and how
do I work through those problems. You
know, one example is uh you know, we
made a big investment in QXO with a guy
Brad Jacobs. Um and seeing the way that
he's pursued his M&A strategy and then
his change transformation strategy. I
mean, I'm learning a lot being a board
member there uh and and watching, you
know, him and his incredible operating
team uh do change management, take a
company that's operated one way for a
while and then convince them to operate
a different way to, you know, to
integrate technology, to integrate a
different mindset. And so I find that by
being in this role with a lot of
different CEOs, I'm able to learn from
the things that they do well and then
take those learnings and bring them
across and help other CEOs uh achieve at
a higher level. And so uh right now I'm
really enjoying that and that's been uh
that's been fun to do.
>> Thanks for an amazing conversation, J.
>> No, thank you guys.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priers.com.
[Music]